.TH MPI_Iscatterv 3 "10/6/2025" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Iscatterv \-  Scatters a buffer in parts to all processes in a communicator in a nonblocking way 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fi
.nf
int MPI_Iscatterv(const void *sendbuf, const int sendcounts[],
const int displs[], MPI_Datatype sendtype, void *recvbuf,
int recvcount, MPI_Datatype recvtype, int root, MPI_Comm comm,
MPI_Request *request)
.fi

.nf
int MPI_Iscatterv_c(const void *sendbuf, const MPI_Count sendcounts[],
const MPI_Aint displs[], MPI_Datatype sendtype,
void *recvbuf, MPI_Count recvcount, MPI_Datatype recvtype,
int root, MPI_Comm comm, MPI_Request *request)
.fi


.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendbuf 
- address of send buffer (choice)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendcounts 
- non-negative integer array (of length group size) specifying the number of elements to send to each rank (non-negative integer)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B displs 
- integer array (of length group size). Entry i specifies the displacement (relative to sendbuf) from which to take the outgoing data to process i (integer)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendtype 
- data type of send buffer elements (handle)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvcount 
- number of elements in receive buffer (non-negative integer)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvtype 
- data type of receive buffer elements (handle)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B root 
- rank of sending process (integer)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle)
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvbuf 
- address of receive buffer (choice)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B request 
- communication request (handle)
.PD 1

.SH THREAD AND INTERRUPT SAFETY

This routine is thread-safe.  This means that this routine may be
safely used by multiple threads without the need for any user-provided
thread locks.  However, the routine is not interrupt safe.  Typically,
this is due to the use of memory allocation routines such as 
.I malloc
or other non-MPICH runtime routines that are themselves not interrupt-safe.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Comm_set_errhandler
(for communicators),
.I MPI_File_set_errhandler
(for files), and 
.I MPI_Win_set_errhandler
(for
RMA windows).  The MPI-1 routine 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
may be used but
its use is deprecated.  The predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past
an error; however, MPI implementations will attempt to continue whenever
possible.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_BUFFER 
- Invalid buffer pointer.  Usually a null buffer where
one is not valid.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COUNT 
- Invalid count argument.  Count arguments must be 
non-negative; a count of zero is often valid.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_TYPE 
- Invalid datatype argument.  Additionally, this error can
occur if an uncommitted MPI_Datatype (see 
.I MPI_Type_commit
) is used
in a communication call.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_OTHER 
- Other error; use 
.I MPI_Error_string
to get more information
about this error code. 
.PD 1

