.TH MPI_Comm_set_info 3 "10/6/2025" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Comm_set_info \-  Set new values for the hints of the communicator associated with comm 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fi
.nf
int MPI_Comm_set_info(MPI_Comm comm, MPI_Info info)
.fi


.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B info 
- info object (handle)
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
The call is collective on the group of comm. The info object may be different
on each process, but any info entries that an implementation requires to be
the same on all processes must appear with the same value in each process
.I info object.

.SH INFO HINTS
.PD 0
.TP
.B mpi_assert_no_any_tag 
- boolean, default = false.
If set to true, user promises that MPI_ANY_TAG will not be used with the
communicator. This potentially allows MPICH to treat messages with different
tags independent and seek to improve performance, e.g. by employ multiple
network context.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B mpi_assert_no_any_source 
- boolean, default = false.
If set to true, user promises that MPI_ANY_SOURCE will not be used with the
communicator. This potentially allows MPICH to treat messages send to different
ranks or receive from different ranks independent and seek to improve
performance, e.g. by employ multiple network context.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B mpi_assert_exact_length 
- boolean, default = false.
If set to true, user promises that the lengths of messages received by the
process will always equal to the size of the corresponding receive buffers.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B mpi_assert_allow_overtaking 
- boolean, default = false.
If set to true, user asserts that send operations are not required to be matched
at the receiver in the order in which the send operations were performed by the
sender, and receive operations are not required to be matched in the order in
which they were performed by the receivers.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B mpi_assert_strict_persistent_collective_ordering 
- boolean, default = false.
If set to true, then the implementation may assume that all the persistent
collective operations are started in the same order across all MPI processes in
the group of the communicator. It is required that if this assertion is made on
one member of the communicator
s group, then it must be made on all members of
that communicator
.I s group with the same value.
.PD 1

.SH THREAD AND INTERRUPT SAFETY

This routine is thread-safe.  This means that this routine may be
safely used by multiple threads without the need for any user-provided
thread locks.  However, the routine is not interrupt safe.  Typically,
this is due to the use of memory allocation routines such as 
malloc
.I or other non-MPICH runtime routines that are themselves not interrupt-safe.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
MPI_WTIME
.I  and 
MPI_WTICK
.I ) have
an additional argument 
ierr
.I  at the end of the argument list.  
ierr
.I is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
call
.I  statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
MPI_Datatype
.I , 
MPI_Comm
.I ) are of type 
INTEGER
.I in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
MPI_Wtime
.I  and 
MPI_Wtick
.I ) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler
.I  (for communicators),
MPI_File_set_errhandler
.I  (for files), and 
MPI_Win_set_errhandler
.I  (for
RMA windows).  The MPI-1 routine 
MPI_Errhandler_set
.I  may be used but
its use is deprecated.  The predefined error handler
MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
.I  may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past
an error; however, MPI implementations will attempt to continue whenever
possible.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
MPI_Comm_rank
.I ).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_INFO 
- Invalid Info 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_OTHER 
- Other error; use 
MPI_Error_string
.I  to get more information
about this error code. 
.PD 1

