.TH MPIX_Comm_agree 3 "10/6/2025" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPIX_Comm_agree \-  Performs agreement operation on comm 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fi
.nf
int MPIX_Comm_agree(MPI_Comm comm, int *flag)
.fi


.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle)
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B flag 
- new communicator (logical)
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
The purpose of this collective communication is to agree on the integer value flag and on the group of failed processes in comm.

On completion, all non-failed MPI processes have agreed to set the output integer value of flag to the result of a bitwise AND operation over the contributed input values of flag. If comm is an intercommunicator, the value of flagis a bitwise AND operation over the values contributed by the remote group.

When an MPI process fails before contributing to the operation, the flag is computed ignoring its contribution, and MPIX_Comm_agree raises an error of class MPI_ERR_PROC_FAILED. However, if all MPI processes have acknowledged this failure priorto the call to MPIX_Comm_agree, using MPIX_Comm_failure_ack, the error related to this failure is not raised. When an error of class MPI_ERR_PROC_FAILED is raised, it is consistently raised at allMPI processes, in both the local and remote groups (if applicable).

After MPIX_Comm_agree raised an error of class MPI_ERR_PROC_FAILED, a subse-quent call to MPIX_Comm_failure_ack on comm acknowledges the failure of every MPI process that didn
.I t contribute to the computation offlag.

.SH THREAD AND INTERRUPT SAFETY

This routine is thread-safe.  This means that this routine may be
safely used by multiple threads without the need for any user-provided
thread locks.  However, the routine is not interrupt safe.  Typically,
this is due to the use of memory allocation routines such as 
malloc
.I or other non-MPICH runtime routines that are themselves not interrupt-safe.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
MPI_WTIME
.I  and 
MPI_WTICK
.I ) have
an additional argument 
ierr
.I  at the end of the argument list.  
ierr
.I is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
call
.I  statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
MPI_Datatype
.I , 
MPI_Comm
.I ) are of type 
INTEGER
.I in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
MPI_Wtime
.I  and 
MPI_Wtick
.I ) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler
.I  (for communicators),
MPI_File_set_errhandler
.I  (for files), and 
MPI_Win_set_errhandler
.I  (for
RMA windows).  The MPI-1 routine 
MPI_Errhandler_set
.I  may be used but
its use is deprecated.  The predefined error handler
MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
.I  may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past
an error; however, MPI implementations will attempt to continue whenever
possible.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
MPI_ERR_RANK
.I ).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
MPI_Comm_rank
.I ).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_OTHER 
- Other error; use 
MPI_Error_string
.I  to get more information
about this error code. 
.PD 1

